# Sturdy Tutorial - The While Language

We illustrate the workflow for developing static analyses with the sturdy framework using the while language. The tutorial implementation consists of the following parts:
- [Syntax](sturdy-tutorial/src/main/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/Syntax.scala): This defines the syntax of the language.
- [Reference Interpreter](sturdy-tutorial/src/main/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/ReferenceInterpreter.scala): This simulates a reference interpreter defining the semantics of the language.
- [GenericInterpreter](sturdy-tutorial/src/main/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/GenericInterpreter.scala): The generic interpreter is the heart of our implementation. It captures the common behaviour of the concrete and abstract interpreters and is parametric in value and effect components.
- [Concrete Interpreter](sturdy-tutorial/src/main/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/ConcreteInterpreter.scala): We derive a concrete interpreter from the generic interpreter by instantiating it with the concrete implementations of the value and effect components. For illustration purpose we implement all components from scratch. [ConcreteInstances](sturdy-tutorial/src/main/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/ConcreteInstances.scala) defines all concrete instances of the components. When implementing a real analysis we can reuse existing components from the sturdy library. We test the correctness of the concrete interpreter with respect to the reference interpreter in [ConcreteInterpreterTest](sturdy-tutorial/src/test/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/ConcreteInterpreterTest.scala).
- [Sign Interpreter](sturdy-tutorial/src/main/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/SignInterpreter.scala): As a sample analysis we implement a context insensitive sign analysis, i.e., values are abstracted by their sign. The abstract component instances can be found in [SignInstances](sturdy-tutorial/src/main/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/SignInstances.scala), and we test the soundness of our analysis with respect to the concrete interpreter in [SignInterpreterTest](sturdy-tutorial/src/test/scala/sturdy/language/tutorial/SignInterpreterTest.scala).
